Hello, everyone,
and welcome back to the attic.
So last night,
I noticed there was
a little bit
of speculation online
over the fact that my various
copies of "The Thorn Birds,"
the 1977 Australian
romance novel
that inspired
the hit 1983 miniseries
starring Richard Chamberlain,
had disappeared
from the book pile.
And I just want to
assure everyone we are,
you know, looking into it.
Our best guess is
I left the window open
to let the wasps out,
and the Thorn Birds
took advantage and flew away.
Now, generally birds fly south
for the winter,
but Thorn Birds fly, as you know
if you've read the book,
where their passions take them.
Anyway, we're hoping they come
back, but in the meantime,
the thing we definitely
don't want to come back
is the coronavirus.
Our segues are getting worse,
right?
It's not just me
that's thinking that?
Anyway, the president
ignored repeated warnings
in his intelligence briefings
that the pandemic
could be devastating.
And now he and his sycophants
on state TV
are pushing people to go back
to work before it's safe.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
We already know
that the president
ignored repeated warnings
from public health experts
and intelligence officials
about the threat posed
by the coronavirus for months.
In fact, ABC reported
that an intelligence report
warned of the coronavirus crisis
as early as November
and that analysts concluded
it could be a cataclysmic event.
Of course, back in November,
Trump had bigger things
on his plate.
-They don't want to use
the term "Thanksgiving."
And that was true also
with "Christmas."
But now everybody's
using "Christmas" again.
Remember I said that?
[ Cheers and applause ]
But now we're gonna have to do
a little work on "Thanksgiving."
People have different ideas
why it shouldn't
be called Thanksgiving.
But everybody in this room
I know
loves the name Thanksgiving,
and we're not changing it.
-The word "Christmas"
was breathtakingly dumb,
but at least I understood it.
I mean, what else would we
even call Thanksgiving?
Green Bean Casserole
Avoidance Day?
The Festival of Gravy Farts?
"It was a miracle, Timmy.
They had but only one
gravy boat,
and yet the farting lasted
for eight nights."
Of course, that idea,
like all of Trump's dumb ideas,
was something he regurgitated
from Fox News.
Trump could see literally
anything on Fox News,
and he would mindlessly
repeat it the next day.
"You know, I saw
the great Tom Selleck,
Magnum, P.I. himself,
talking about reverse mortgages,
and it gave me an idea.
Why don't we create
a reverse coronavirus?
It would reverse the symptoms
and make you better
but be exactly like
the coronavirus.
And then when you shook hands,
you would be curing people.
I don't know.
May be worth a shot.
What do you think, Fauci?
Fauci?
Fauci, I can't hear you
when you talk through your hand
like that.
It's blocking -- I'll just
assume it's full steam ahead.
Fauci."
So Trump was getting warnings
about the coronavirus
as early as November.
And then on Monday,
"The Washington Post" reported
that in January and February,
he was also getting warnings
in his daily
intelligence briefings.
-"The Washington Post"
reports tonight
U.S. intelligence agencies
issued warnings about
the novel coronavirus
in more than a dozen
classified briefings
prepared for President Trump
in January and February,
months during which he continued
to play down the threat.
According to current
and former U.S. officials,
the repeated warnings
were conveyed
in issues of the president's
daily brief,
a sensitive report that is
produced before dawn each day
and designed to call
the president's attention
to the most significant
global developments
and security threats.
-So while Trump
was telling everyone
it would disappear
like a miracle
and cases would soon
go down to zero,
he was getting private warnings
that actually it was a big deal,
which means either one
of two things --
He was lying
or he didn't read it,
and honestly,
both are probably true.
Trump's like a high school
student doing a book report
who not only didn't read
the book, but even if he did,
you know it would go
way over his head anyway.
"'Beowulf' is about a wolf
who's also a lifeguard.
That's the 'Bay' part.
Works with Pamela Anderson.
Anderson.
[ Mumbles ]"
And once Trump heard them refer
to it as the novel coronavirus,
he was never gonna read it
because he's never
gone near a novel.
They should have told him
it was called
"Sports Illustrated"
swimsuit issue coronavirus,
and he would have at least
thumbed through it.
"Well, I mean, she's a 10,
but her friend's a real dog.
Should do something
about her friend.
Create a task force
or something."
You know what? This is
probably not fair of me.
I'm sure the president
read the briefings.
-But the alarms
appear to have failed
to register with the president,
who routinely skips
reading the PDB
and has at times
shown little patience
for even the oral summary
he takes two or three times
per week.
-Not only does he
not read the briefings,
he loses patience
during the oral summary.
What do they have to do
to keep this guy's attention?
Have his daily briefings
delivered
by pageant contestants?
"My name is Briana.
I'm from Battle Creek, Michigan.
And a new virus spreading
across the globe
has a 3.4% mortality rate."
This fits with what we know
about Trump
and how he consumes
his intelligence briefings.
For example, soon after
he first took office,
it was reported that, "National
Security Council officials
have strategically
included Trump's name
in as many paragraphs as we can
because he keeps reading
if he's mentioned.
He prefers killer graphics like
pictures, videos, and charts.
The president also favors
tiny nuggets of intelligence
that pop out at him
during his daily briefings."
He wants tiny nuggets,
killer graphics,
and to see his own name.
So he wants a birthday party.
He wants a child's
birthday party.
Look, Donald,
Ronald McDonald is here
with your daily
intelligence briefing.
On Tuesday, Trump was asked
why he downplayed the threat
even when he was getting
warnings to the contrary
and said he'd have to go back
and look at the dates
of the reports.
-Can you clarify what
your intelligence advisers
were telling you back in January
and February?
Were you warned about what was
happening with coronavirus
and the threat to this country?
Should there have been
stronger warnings?
What were you hearing every day?
-I think probably a lot more
than the Democrats,
because a month later,
Nancy Pelosi was saying,
"Let's dance in the streets
of Chinatown."
You go back and you take a look
at even professionals
like Anthony were saying,
"This is no problem."
This is late in February.
"This is no problem.
This is gonna blow over."
And they're professionals
and they're good professionals.
Most people thought this
was gonna blow over.
-Did you have any warnings
in your...
-I'd have to check.
I would have to check.
I want to look as to
the exact dates of warnings.
-Okay, couple things.
First of all,
Nancy Pelosi did not say,
"Let's dance in the streets
of Chinatown."
What are you talking about?
Sounds like a lyric
from a Tony Bennett song.
♪ Let's dance in the streets
of Chinatown ♪
♪ Let's go swimming
in the Hudson River ♪
[Bleep]
That sounded good.
These attic acoustics
are outstanding.
Can we get that over
to Columbia Records?
Why?
Oh, because you're a wasp?
Well, oh, I'm sorry
that I thought you might
add some value.
Sorry. Where was I?
Oh, right.
No one was saying this was
gonna blow over,
beside you and Fox News.
That's not how public health
experts talk about pandemics.
That's how Real Housewives
talk about their feuds.
"Look, just stay away
from Ramona for a few days,
and this will all blow over."
It's just one of many examples
in which Trump has aggressively
ignored advice and warnings
from his own experts,
like when the CDC
issued new guidelines
recommending that Americans
to wear face masks
to prevent the spread
of coronavirus.
When he announced
the guidelines,
Trump added that he personally
would not follow them.
-The CDC is advising the use of
non-medical cloth face covering
as an additional
voluntary public health measure.
So it's voluntary.
You don't have to do it.
They suggest it
for a period of time.
But this is voluntary.
I don't think
I'm gonna be doing it.
I don't know. Somehow sitting
in the Oval Office
behind that beautiful resolute
desk, the great resolute desk,
I think wearing a face mask
as I greet presidents,
prime ministers, dictators,
kings, queens -- I don't know --
somehow I don't see it
for myself.
I just don't.
Maybe I'll change my mind.
-Guess I can't be that surprised
that a guy who has unprotected
sex with porn stars
and pops cheeseburgers
like Tic Tacs
would ignore a warning
from the CDC.
Seems like he might be more of
a "roll the dice" kind of guy.
And I'd say there's a good
chance you'll change your mind
because you change your mind
about everything.
We all know Trump
is easily swayed
by, you know, the last thing
someone said to him.
He's almost like
a senile family patriarch
whose kids
are fighting over the will.
"I'm giving the house to Tyler."
"Why should he get it all
to himself?"
"You're right.
That wouldn't be fair.
Get out of here, Tyler!"
Trump's only capable of exactly
one thought at a time.
He's our first amoeba president.
And second, I think
you're having trouble
picturing that scene
not because of the mask,
but because of the desk.
You're never there.
You're always golfing
or out on the lawn
yelling at reporters
like an old man telling
the neighborhood kids
they're not getting
their Frisbee back.
And when you do show up,
your desk is spotless,
like a busboy
just cleaned it off.
I mean, even the desks
at a furniture store
have a calendar
or something on them
so you can imagine yourself
working on it.
This is what a desk looks like
after you've been fired
and all your stuff
is in a cardboard box
with a fern sticking out of it.
Mm, damn, that picture
makes me want to sing.
♪ Dance in the streets
of Chinatown ♪
♪ Have a drink with
the Statue of Liberty ♪
♪ Go swimming
in the Chicago fountain ♪
♪ From the opening credits
of "Married...with Children" ♪
Anyway, so Trump
wouldn't wear his mask
even though his own government
recommended it,
just like he said
the coronavirus was no big deal
when his government
was telling him it was.
But as we all know,
the sycophants around Trump
have always had to mimic him
for fear of incurring his wrath.
And so yesterday,
when Vice President Mike Pence
visited the Mayo Clinic,
he declined to wear a mask
despite the fact that the clinic
requires visitors to wear masks
and they made Pence's office
aware of that fact
before the trip.
Well, at least that image
will last forever.
I mean, look at that.
He's the only one
not wearing a mask.
Why couldn't you just
follow the rules, man?
Do you think if you purse
your lips hard enough,
the virus can't get in?
He's like the ass[bleep]
who shows up at a restaurant
with no shirt and no shoes,
still demanding service,
yelling, "Give me crab cakes
or give me death, man."
And, Mike, you may not
have coronavirus.
But that doesn't mean you can't
spread the other diseases
you do have, like, for example,
rheumatoid gravititis
or chronic furrowed brow
or mayonnaise blood.
Pence was asked later
why he refused to follow
the Mayo Clinic's guidelines,
And his answer
didn't really make sense.
-Mr. Vice President, there's
obviously been some controversy
since you got here
about the decision not to wear
a mask around the Mayo Clinic,
as the governor
and other officials here did.
Can you just walk us through
why you made the decision
not to wear the mask
even though the clinic,
they tweeted that they
had asked you to do so.
-When the CDC issued guidelines
about wearing a mask,
it was their recognition
that people that may have
the coronavirus
could prevent the possibility
of conveying the virus to
someone else by wearing a mask.
And since I don't have
the coronavirus,
I thought it'd be a good
opportunity for me to be here,
to be able to speak
to these researchers,
these incredible
healthcare personnel,
and look them in the eye
and say thank you.
-You can still see people's eyes
with a mask on.
It's the Mayo Clinic,
not Daft Punk.
For real, how do you think
you're supposed to wear a mask?
It's never supposed to
cover your eyes,
unless you're thinking about
"Fifty Shades of Grey."
[ Gasps ] Which means you've
seen "Fifty Shades of Grey."
Mike Pence, you nasty.
But this gets at a core maxim
of the Trump cult.
They see themselves as above
the rules and above you.
That's why Trump and his
sycophants on Fox News
are all talking about
reopening the economy
and proclaiming that we all
need to get back to work.
What they really mean is
you need to get back to work
while they all sit comfortably
in safe isolation,
you know, like Real Housewife
of Westchester Jeanine Pirro
or Long Island Lurch
Sean Hannity.
This crisis has revealed
everything the conservative
movement pretended to believe in
to be a fraud.
And there's really
no better example of that
than the protests
you've probably seen on TV
against the stay-at-home orders.
In reality, polls show
the vast majority of Americans
support the stay-at-home rules.
But these small protests
are being ginned up
by right-wing groups
to support Trump's push to
prematurely reopen the economy.
Groups like FreedomWorks,
which played a pivotal role
in the Tea Party movement
10 years ago
specifically decrying bailouts.
"The New York Times" reported
that among the applicants
for loans
from the Small Business
Administration stimulus package
is the foundation arm
of FreedomWorks.
The president
of FreedomWorks said,
"I would love someone
to give us free cash."
You got to love the Trump era,
when people just admit
their [bleep] out loud.
"Hey, maybe say
we want the money
to pay our employees
in these trying times.
Nah, I'm gonna go with,
'I'd love free cash.'"
And I have an idea,
FreedomWorks.
Instead of freeloading
off the government,
why don't you pick yourself up
by your bootstraps
and take some personal
responsibility?
Go out there and get a job
as an essential worker
in a grocery store
or as a postal worker
or in a meat processing plant.
All you have to do is change
one letter in your name,
and, boom, you're no longer
FreedomWorks.
You're FreedomPorks.
This crisis has revealed
once again
that everything
these people told you
about the conservative movement
and what they pretended
to stand for was a lie.
They're all frauds,
and now they're all sycophants
to an incompetent authoritarian
who repeatedly ignored warnings
about what was coming.
And one day,
when they're all out of power,
I'll be the first to say,
hey, everyone...
-Let's dance in the streets
of Chinatown.
-This has been "A Closer Look."
We've been talking
about City Harvest
on our show during this crisis.
And you have been
incredibly helpful.
So if you can,
please keep giving.
With unemployment skyrocketing,
they are keeping
their trucks full
to feed the growing number
of New Yorkers
who are turning to them
to put food on their tables.
If you're watching this online,
please hit the "donate" button.
Stay safe. Wash your hands.
We love you.